Course Details
Start Month
September
Qualification
MMus
Duration
1 year full time, 2 years part time
Study Mode
Full Time
Location
Bangor
About This Course
This MMus Performance course is ideal for proficient instrumental or vocal performers who wish to further enhance their musical and artistic development through focused study. On this programme you will refine your technical and interpretative skills on your chosen instrument or voice. This MMus Performance allows you to acquire a deeper understanding of contemporary and historical contexts relating to instrumental or vocal pedagogy, and develop pathways and methodologies to undertake specialist practice-based research. You will also hone high-level transferable skills in critical thinking, conceptual thinking, problem-solving, analysis, communication, self-direction and originality.
You can work closely with professional tutors, accompanists, and established researchers, many of whom have international profiles.
Studying at Bangor University offers several exciting opportunities for solo and ensemble-based public performance activities, and enjoys close links with national and regional industrial and third-sector partners such as the BBC National Orchestra of Wales, Sinfonia Cymru, Welsh National Opera, Opra Cymru, Aria Film Studios, Pontio Arts Centre, Venue Cymru, Ucheldre Arts Centre, Canolfan Gerdd William Mathias, Bangor Cathedral, Bangor Music Festival, North Wales International Festival and Wales International Piano Festival.
Programme
Length
MMus:
1 year full-time, 2-5 years part-time
Diploma:
30 weeks full-time
Why choose Bangor University for this course?
A broad curriculum that develops your technical and interpretive proficiency on your chosen instrument/voice while also building your knowledge and experience through pedagogical and practice-based research.
A flexible programme of study that allows you to explore your own areas of interest within musical performance.
A contemporary course that addresses and promotes the development of key practice-based skills relevant to the music industry today.
Expert tuition from renowned academics and practitioners in the fields of music performance and pedagogy.
Excellent practising facilities including access to world class instruments for 1-to-1 lessons, workshops, masterclasses and public performances.
Course Content
What will you study on this course?
This MMus Performance is divided into two parts;
Taught Study (120 credits)
Master’s Project (60 credits)
The Taught Study element of this course will be taught across two semesters for full time students with the Master’s Project produced over the summer. Teaching is provided through a combination of individual tuition and small-group seminars. MMus Performance students receive 36 hours of specialist instrumental or vocal tuition with experienced pedagogues over the course of the programme; they also have opportunities to participate in masterclasses and workshops with internationally renowned musicians. A professional accompanist is provided for all recital-based modules.
Students who wish to undertake the Diploma in Music will only complete the Taught Study element of this course. For the MA in Music students will need to complete both the Taught Study element and the Master’s Project.
Taught Study (120 credits) (Diploma):
On this programme, you will undertake
Solo Performance
modules in both semesters, leading to a short recital at the end of each one. Research-based assignments that accompany these recitals include the preparation of programme notes (semester 1) and an oral presentation (semester 2). With the guidance of experienced professional tutors and workshop leaders, you will explore and develop practice-based skills and knowledge that are of relevance to your future career choices within the music industry, for example, as orchestra/band/session players, accompanists/repetiteurs, opera/musical theatre performers, music therapy, instrumental/vocal tutors, and classroom teachers etc.
Semester 1
Solo Performance (20 credits)
Music and Ideas (20 credits)
explores a case study chosen from options growing out of staff specialisms, alongside a series of public research seminars delivered by staff and external speakers.
Investigating Music (20 credits)
brings together students following musicology, composition, and performance programmes; in it we explore a range of contemporary issues from these different and inter-related perspectives.
In semester 2
Solo Performance (20 credits)
Researching Music (20 credits)
prepares you to undertake the summer research project; in it we cover aspects such as research methodologies, writing proposals, managing your project.
Performance in Context (20 credits)
further develops your understanding of how their practice-based activities are directly informed by contextual disciplines.
Masters project (60 credits)
Prepared over the summer, the Masters Project consists of a public recital lasting 50–60 minutes, or a lecture recital of around 40 minutes, normally given in late September or early October of the following academic year. These recitals typically take place in the University’s chamber music venue, Powis Hall, which has excellent acoustics and a magnificent Steinway D Concert Grand piano (acquired in 2021).
Students wishing to exit this degree programme with a MMus Performance must successfully complete the Master’s Project.
Modules for the current academic year
Module listings are for guide purposes only and are subject to change. Find out what our students are currently studying on the
Performance MMus Modules
page.
Course content is for guidance purposes only and may be subject to change.
Entry Requirements
A first degree at 2.ii standard or higher (or equivalent) is required.
Candidates for this programme must be able to demonstrate excellent performance skills; most will have either an excellent grade in an undergraduate final-year recital (good 2.i or higher), a high mark in DipABRSM (or equivalent) or at least a pass at LRSM (or equivalent).
Applicants will be asked to audition, or, where this is not feasible, to provide a recorded video performance featuring contrasting repertoire (25-30 minutes) which can be in the form of links to content on YouTube or Dropbox, or by uploading video files (PLEASE NOTE: your face must be clearly visible in any submitted videos)
English proficiency (for non-native English or Welsh speakers): IELTS English test with a score of 6.0 (no element below 5.5).
Applications from working professionals with non-graduate qualifications will be considered on an individual basis and candidates may be asked to submit a piece of written work in support of their application. Please contact us for more information.
Careers
The MMus in Performance will widen your experience of performing and will develop your academic skills in relation to your practice. The programme will equip you for further study of performance and/or musicology at PhD level and beyond. It will also equip you with skills in creativity, self-discipline, analysis and communication which are valued by employers both within and outside the field of music. Recent graduates have pursued successful careers as professional performers, concert promoters, arts administrators, teachers, educational advisers, performers, and business people.
Apply Now
Find out how to apply
Postgraduate Tuition Fees
View our full tuition fees information
Register your interest in PG study
Register now
Explore More in Music
At Bangor you will part of a vibrant community of composers, scholars and musicians from all over the world, benefitting from the opportunities to share ideas and creativity across different modes of musical activity. You will be taught and supervised by world-renowned musicologists, composers and practitioners.
See Courses
Learn More
*The year of entry refers to the academic year in which the course begins rather than the calendar year. E.g. a course with a March 2025 start date will be shown as 'March 2024/25 Entry' because the academic year starts in September making 2024/25 the relevant academic year. Similarly, a course with a January 2025 start date will have 'January 2024/25 Entry' because 2024/25 is the academic year of entry for that course.
Follow Us
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
Youtube
LinkedIn
Bangor University
Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG, UK
+44 1248 351 151
Contact Us
Visit Us
Maps & Directions
Policy
Legal Compliance
Modern Slavery Act 2015 Statement
Accessibility Statement
Privacy and Cookies
Welsh Language Policy
Bangor University is a Registered Charity: No. 1141565
© 2025 Bangor University